**Core Meeting:** 1
**Date:** June 19th, 2018 (UTC +2)
**Particpants:** RockSteady, fexra, iburnmycd™, CodIsAFish, z, crappyrules, Jon, ar-x, SoreGums

***
June 19, 2018
***

**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 9:59 PM**
@fexra  go ahead and make your announcement here
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:03 PM**
Hey peeps! Welcome to our first brainstorm session for the daemon rewrite. Since not everyone can make it here today, we thought it be best to have the discussion in writing and have it be open for a few days, in this hidden channel, where everyone can share and express their thoughts, ideas and opinions. I think it will be best to start of with what has been discussed so far prior to this meeting. Perhaps Rock or someone else who was in attendance can start?(edited)

Tagging @DiscoTim since he doesn't have a dev role I think(edited)
***

***[Bullshit]***

***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:08 PM**
Alright. So just to check since I mainly have been lurking on these discussions. Have we decided if we are going C++ or Golang?
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:09 PM**
we're going with a spec

and from that spec, we are creating the first implementation of it in C# because we have an abundance of people

this is covered in the doc that @iburnmycd™ put together too, i believe
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:09 PM**
C# nod
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:09 PM**
i didn't mention language in the doc
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:09 PM**
so that being said, we do not maintain a core implementation anymore

@fexra we do not maintain a core implementation anymore

we maintain a spec, and services such as exchanges, pools etc need to make their own arrangements to communicate with the network based on spec, which likely in thebeginning, will be using a community provided core suite, so we should create them with consideration for people actually using them in the beginning. in the beginning the proof of concept c# build should serve as a model for this(edited)

but ultimately exchanges etc should be responsible for their own integrations

our job should not be maintaining a code base and herding coders, we should be working on products, integrations and features to the core network
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:12 PM**
I agree
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:12 PM**
We had so many grand visions in the beginning, and we've been encumbered by chasing bugs
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:12 PM**
so no more maintaince of pool software, walletd,  etc?(edited)
***
**CodIsAFish - turtlepool.space - Last Monday at 10:13 PM**
So the C# client would be a reference client, as it were?
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:13 PM**
Instead they will become community projects
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:13 PM**
in the beginning we'll likely supply it ourselves in the c# client, with the goal being to let the community figure out their Geth's and Party's etc

we can't just say "we're dumping the core suite, good luck"

we have to show them the way first, and that's the purpose of the c# client

"here;s how we did this, you can use these other methods here if you want"

like our dev notes you can click PHP, JS, etc

it's all the same API though, you know?
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:14 PM**
Right
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:14 PM**
we should only maintain our little linkages as pet projects, like the turtlecoind-rpc-js,go,php etc

it's like we're all mommas right now, and our kids are fully capable of cleaning their own room at this point, and we're gonna show them how one last time and then give them a basic set of rules how it shoud world: no clothes on the floor, put your shoes in the closet, shirts on hangars, etc.
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:15 PM**
I was thinking that as well... library development only -- if i'm following you
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:15 PM**
yep ^
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:16 PM**
import the library and roll your own :smiley:
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:16 PM**
im not trying to hand this down as gospel either, im just trying to reitterate to @fexra stuff we've already agreed on so there's no back tracking on stuff we've already deliberated about
this is all from notes that you guys typed and i wrote.
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:16 PM**
Thanks. I'm following it.
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:17 PM**
we should probably put a code free ze on everything once nest is sorted out and v0.6.0 is released.

***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:18 PM**
Yes. Real bug fix only.

***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:18 PM**
We should explain to the community what's going on

Only bugs that end in loss of funds or network disruption should be worked on, at all.

the switch to zedwallet is spelled out pretty succinctly in that article, we should do something similar that says "hey, so here's v.0.6.0, and in the mean time, here'es what we are going to be working on"

this way it tips off other devs "start working"

if there's anybody out there who has a hint of a bit of skill, he/she is going to be in demand to create the $LANG-client(edited)
we should notify exchanges too.

this way people know, "ok, v0.6.0 is going to be it, so if im not satisfied with it, I need to pay attention to this network spec discussion"
someone has to be the network that walks forward from being a fork to being something that stands on its own(edited)

value aside, the onlynetwork out there in our class of forks that rivals our dev momentum is maybe Masari, and they're still a monero clone (with respect). We got to cut the cord, metaphorically speaking, and start expecting more from our exchanges etc so that we can move forward as a network to new concepts

I think our users will be happy for it
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:23 PM**
I agree with that 100%
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:23 PM**
@crappyrules sory forgot you sirs(edited)
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:25 PM**
How do you think the community will react to this? You say the users will be happy, but this is still a big change - not that I disagree with any of it but just thinking how this will influence TurtleCoin and change it's course. As you said we will be able to focus more on the network and create value and adding new tools and features, however, do you think - being so young still and having fairly little exposure and only being on two exchanges, one being terrible, that it be the right time to do it now?

In other words, do you think the demand is there
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:26 PM**
OK Not sure if you're in the know about this, but we're on TO, TS, Altex and another one coming next week

I don't see exchange momentum slowing down
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:26 PM**
right but do you also expect them to build their own tools for turttlecoin
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:26 PM**
What, from a user perspective, will change in a negative way, that they otherwise would not be impacted from if we stick with patching the same codebase?
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:26 PM**
we have very low volume and not big books
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:26 PM**
no
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:27 PM**
I can see TO do it, but not TS
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:27 PM**
you're either not reading, or not comprehending, we don't expect users to build their own core suite.
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:27 PM**
0.06 until the rewrite
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:28 PM**
we expect large services who need high volume daemons with specialty params and configs to use some of their profits to build their own core suite. We will maintain the libs/hookups for them to do that as a courtesy.
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:28 PM**
Okay alright.
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:29 PM**
normal users can use the PoC clients, or what will likely happen, as with bitcoin and eth is that people will take the airtight spec like the one that Iburnmycd created and port the client to their language of choice(edited)

all of our GUI's did this
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:29 PM**
I got it. I was confused there for a second :wink:
***
**CodIsAFish - turtlepool.space - Last Monday at 10:30 PM**
That makes sense to me, I like that

So - in regards to the spec, do we consider it complete?
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:30 PM**
it's a way that I think will help us "even out" the risk-profile of our network as a whole, when it comes to vulns
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:30 PM**
there's some changes to be made to the spec yet
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:30 PM**
we need to document all the methods of the daemon
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:30 PM**
like we need to talk about moving paymentid out -- and cleaning other stuff out
and that which rock just mentioned... making more sense of library entry points, etc
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:33 PM**
same way we documented all of the API stuff, we need to do the same with all the methods/functions/etc in the daemon to figure out what this thing is doing from a high level, then we break up the list of methods into modules, eliminate what isn't needed for an MVP, and see how what remains  applies to what our spec is calling for with consideration given to the direction we need the network to go in order to accommodate things like merge mine etc which affects the block template and other "critical" pieces

![Diagram1](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/458359266294759434/458369184800309292/unknown.png)

**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:37 PM**
I'd also like to discuss dropping support for the 16 byte payment Id

in my mind, pick ONE

these bad boys need strongly typed
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:38 PM**
sure

but we have to make sure we know why it has an option for both
importance of a good diagram

wish there were a piece of software that could evaluate a certain part of a program like our daemon and give us all the functions and methods and what the params are that they expect. I've seen serroft do it in VS but I don't fuck with VS so having trouble reproducing it.
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:39 PM**
there is... i can ask my monkies

they do crap like that all the time
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:40 PM**
how long would they take to make a flow chart or diagram of all the methods and classes?
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:40 PM**
i was talking about the automated tool, sorry

my dev manager just said "Try running it through Doxygen"

***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:41 PM**
doxygen just reads the comment above every function

doesnt help us much

better than nothing I guess

@fexra
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:43 PM**
?
***
**z - Last Monday at 10:43 PM**
This all looks good and makes sense. We could potentially drop payment ID support and use integrated addresses to provide that function
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:43 PM**
seeing what your thoughts on the best way to get that diagrammed is before we go line by line and do this like a choose your own adventure book
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:44 PM**
If need be, i'm sure I can find someone to go through and document the method signatures to start -- or write a quick parser for the .h files(edited)

the cpp files as well i suppose
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:44 PM**
I don't know of any way, but I'm sure there is software out there but it would be better to do it by hand if you would want to understand everything line by line
***
**crappyrules - Last Monday at 10:45 PM**
One of the goals is to cut down the tx_extra from taking heaps of random shit and only accepting data with a flag on it?

hopefully using the right terms there
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:45 PM**
i'm also of the mindset that anyone that looks at how it's all done today... will be... slewed towards that method in the future shrug
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:46 PM**
or you could be so disgusted by it :stuck_out_tongue:
***
**z - Last Monday at 10:46 PM**
Yeah, I don't see much merit for copying the current functions
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:46 PM**
we dont need to copy it, we need to understand it
***

**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:46 PM**
we cannot replace it if we don't grok it
***

**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:46 PM**
true or no
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:46 PM**
ultimately -- we just need the way that the crypto libraries are engaged documented
***
**crappyrules - Last Monday at 10:46 PM**
I agree
***
**z - Last Monday at 10:46 PM**
true
***
**crappyrules - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
have to pick it apart to make it betterim
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
I agree with rock tho. Its very important to understand every bit. Like we cant just remove the 16 char PID and expect it to go smooth
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
the rest -- can be built from scratch IMO
***
**z - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
It seems we don't even have 16 char PID tbf
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
that's what I was saying, there has to be a reason for 16||64
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
well Monero has it
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
has anybody tried to generate one?
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
way back dont remember tbh
***
**crappyrules - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
the php wallet I've been screwing with has a generate pid in it
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
we have to be cognizant that monero and turtle are in the same boat, we both forked from legacy bytecoin
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:47 PM**
a 16 byte one ? nope
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:48 PM**
i dont think we have it
didnt we discuss this before @z ?(edited)
***
**crappyrules - Last Monday at 10:48 PM**
It's 64 though
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:48 PM**
it's 16||64
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:48 PM**
let me try
***
**z - Last Monday at 10:48 PM**
I was under the impression 16 didn't worked
thought it was monero who added that later
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:49 PM**
But see this is why we should document all of this. I swear we have had this discussion at least 3 times now
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:49 PM**
maybe im wrong

I can't find references to 16 in forknote

https://github.com/forknote/forknote/blob/master/src/SimpleWallet/SimpleWallet.cpp

i find references for checking that it is 64
***
**crappyrules - Last Monday at 10:50 PM**
sounds like it's just extra parts
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:50 PM**
there has to be a reason why 16 is allowed.
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 10:50 PM**
i usually just grab two uuids and concat them and use that for the paymentid soooo lol
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:50 PM**
what if 16 is a necessity of integrated addresses
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:50 PM**
Wrong payment id format
yeh i tried this before. its all coming back now :smile:
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:51 PM**
https://monero.stackexchange.com/questions/3179/what-is-an-integrated-address

***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:51 PM**
thanks rock
***
**CodIsAFish - turtlepool.space - Last Monday at 10:51 PM**
Did somebody say Visual Studio
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:51 PM**
Standard public address is made of:

network byte 18 + public spend key + public view key + checksum

Integrated public address is made of:

network byte 19 + public spend key + public view key + 64-bit payment ID + checksum
***
**CodIsAFish - turtlepool.space - Last Monday at 10:51 PM**
I'm on it
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:52 PM**
To create a standard public address, the following is performed:
> - The pair of public keys are prepended with one network byte (the number 18, 0x12, for Monero). It looks like this: (network byte) + (32-byte public spend key) + (32-byte public view key).
> - These 65 bytes are hashed with Keccak-256.
> - The first four bytes of the hash from 2. are appended to 1., creating a 69-byte Public Address.
> - As a last step, this 69-byte string is converted to Base58. However, it's not done all at once like a Bitcoin address, but rather in 8-byte blocks. This gives us eight full-si**zed blocks and one 5-byte block. Eight bytes converts to 11 or less Base58 characters; if a particular block converts to <11 characters, the conversion pads it with "1"s (1 is 0 in Base58). Likewise, the final 5-byte block can convert to 7 or less Base58 digits; the conversion will ensure the result is 7 digits. Due to the conditional padding, the 69-byte string will always convert to 95 Base58 characters (8 * 11 + 7).
> - This 95-character result is the (obscenely long) Cryptonote Public Address!
> 
> If you're creating an integrated address, simply append the 64-bit payment ID to step 1 and continue; everything else is the same except for the lengths (77 bytes total, 106 Base58 digits) and the prepended byte (19, 0x13).(edited)

our prepend byte is different

(3914525, 0x3bbb1d)(edited)
***
**CodIsAFish - turtlepool.space - Last Monday at 10:53 PM**
I'll be back in approx 30-40 mins properly, am updating visual studio for the analysis
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:54 PM**
@fexra @z but then I see this from monero core dev that says it's a 16 byte ID https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/6npuqb/payment_id_needs_to_be_64_char/dkbc9oy

> mWo12
> 5 points
> ·
> 11 months ago
> integrated address contain short payment id already (16 characters). Wallet should give you random payment id when you generated the integrated address. You can also check the integrated address in https://xmrchain.net/ to have it decoded if you want. I dont know if Bitfinex supports integertaed addrfess or not. If not, then you can always generate random 64 character payment id, e.g., using openssl rand -hex 32 command in linux.
> 
> But, unlike legacy 64 payment ids, the short payment id when used in integrated addresses will be encrypted in the blockchain. So no one will be able to see the real value of the payment id, unless they have your address and your viewkey, or your address or the sender's private tx key.
> 
> More about payment id is here: https://getmonero.org/resources/moneropedia/paymentid.html
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 10:55 PM**
yeh but I think this is a Monero feature
z?
u looked into the code right?
***
**z - Last Monday at 10:56 PM**
To me this seems to be a bit of a tangent, I think we only need to support the current chain for compatibility, and then when the new daemon drops all the cruft we have a new spec

I've looked slightly in there and didn't see anything related to 16 but it was a very superficial look
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 10:57 PM**
ok @z move us forward
Let's talk about the current chain and its bare necessities
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:01 PM**
So we need to be able to restore funds on the new chain with the same private keys, so we really just need those crypto libs. Other than that, do we actually need to have anything set in stone? It seems perfectly reasonable we can completely change the block template, p2p, and so on

think the crypto libs are the core part of it we need to be able to implement in this set way, that's the way we get the current data out of the chain
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:01 PM**
i wouldn't change the block template yet tbf

***
**z - Last Monday at 11:01 PM**
and into whatever fantastic new format we choose
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:02 PM**
the crypto libs are what ties down it all, yes. which is why i've been trying to sort them out when I have time and feel like shooting myself in the foot

if we can get through the crypto libs -- in a few different languages for libraries... then the build process from there can take off like a fire in california
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:02 PM**
crypto libs first, it is then
this makes sense to me
how many do we have
and they're all currently in C and CPP i think
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:03 PM**
the documentation on the cryptonote standards is pretty straight forward how the hashing works, etc etc imo -- it's just the C implementations of the crypto that piss me off
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:04 PM**
I was looking into doing the cn / cn light implementation in C#, and I couldn't find a lot of the custom crypto functions off the shelf, so we might need to be implementing them all from scratch
for example we need keccak (sha3), but it doesn't use standard sha3 parameters
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:05 PM**
to be at risk of being a pedantic asshole, keccak is not SHA3(edited)
SHA-3 FIPS 202 is similar
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:05 PM**
well, sha3 is keccak with a specific set of parameters
right?
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:05 PM**
but due to a padding constant, there is a difference
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.202.pdf
bet the answer is in here
***
***[Bullshit]***
***
**CodIsAFish - turtlepool.space - Last Monday at 11:11 PM**
For the crypto libs - C# is a C based language, so it'll be easier to translate them into that over anything else
Sorry dipping in and out will be here properly in a min
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:11 PM**
It's cool, it's all in writing
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:12 PM**
i agree with that CoD
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:13 PM**
@z the padding that is required for sha3 is outlined in section B2 of the whitepaper(edited)
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:14 PM**
So if we could just copy them all other that would be nice - on the other hand, it wouldn't really lead to understanding them - and part of the issue of the current daemon is we don't really understand why things are the way they are

Though I don't know if we have anyone proficient enough in low level code to rewrite them without copying
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:15 PM**
here's keccak that we can use in node https://www.npmjs.com/package/keccak


SHA3-256 is Keccak-256, except NIST changed padding. For that reason original Keccak-256 gives in a different hash value than NIST SHA3-256. Monero uses original Keccak-256. The NIST standard was only published on August 2015, while Monero went live on 18 April 2014.(edited)

sourced from https://monerodocs.org/cryptography/keccak-256/

https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/550/which-cryptographic-hash-function-does-ethereum-use

***
**CodIsAFish - turtlepool.space - Last Monday at 11:17 PM**
Things like hashlib exist in C# for keccak(edited)
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:17 PM**
there's a difference though
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:17 PM**
yup -- i keep going back to that keccak package as i try to build a nodejs daemon when i feel like shooting myself in both feet, my hands, and then use a cheese grater on my face
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:17 PM**
let's be clear
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:17 PM**
I looked at hashlib but I saw literally zero documentation
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:17 PM**
hashlib is a nightmare
IMO
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:17 PM**
we can't just say "keccak" because they aren't all equal
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:17 PM**
Yeah
So finding something off the shelf might be tricky.
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:18 PM**
cnkak

***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:18 PM**
for example, the NPM js link i gave above is the correct one relevant to monero/us

the keccak available in other libs will not give the same result as ours

https://twitter.com/mjos_crypto/status/933456673443901440

***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:21 PM**
so another tangent -- would it behove us down the road to moving towards STANDARD crypto implementations ? huh huh huh?

***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:21 PM**
read that twitter thread further
the whole thing, with the 11 comments expanded when Suraj jumps in
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:22 PM**
Bruh just use sha2.... twice to be sure

***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:23 PM**
head explodes
***
**Jon - Nest - Last Monday at 11:23 PM**
hello gentlemen
sorry, did not see you decided to do it today
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 11:23 PM**
Hey Jon
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:24 PM**
rock, i'm not finiding what you're talking about unless there's something weird i'm missing
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:26 PM**
I'm saying the whole thread is relevant to the upgrade/no-upgrade discussion
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:27 PM**
It would be good to use standard, easily available crypto
Though we have to of course still support the old blocks
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:27 PM**
^
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:27 PM**
if you say so buddy :smiley: IRT: entire twitter thread relevance(edited)
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:27 PM**
what do you mean
I think it is relevant because both sides make compelling points
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:28 PM**
i'm not sure we're reading it the same way :smiley:
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:28 PM**
is it broken? no. -> dont fix it
will it be broken? well.... --> profit
tell me the way you perceived it
***
**crappyrules - Last Monday at 11:30 PM**
Blake2
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:30 PM**
Cryptogeek pointed out that monero uses draft version of crypto
Cryptodev said "we don't get paid -- so you're welcome to fix it for us"
and then hilarity ensued
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 11:31 PM**
That Twitter thread was cringe
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:31 PM**
Until spagni said "we plan on fixing it"
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:31 PM**
right, moral of the story is just because it hasn't been broken doesnt mean it wont
no reason to stick with substandard implementation
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:31 PM**
Ah, so you're of the mindset that moving towards standard crypto is good... unless i'm lsot
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:31 PM**
never has it eve r been a good idea to roll your own crypto
right
ive been saying for a while too that we're moving toward sha-3 for quantum reasons
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:32 PM**
gotcha sorry
multi tasking is the worst
~~i'd probably pick up on communication clues better if this was a VOICE chat lol(edited)~~
***

**crappyrules - Last Monday at 11:33 PM**
yep
I caught onto that with the messages in chain idea
***

**crappyrules - Last Monday at 11:33 PM**
might as well do it right the first time
***
**Jon - Nest - Last Monday at 11:35 PM**
do we have a cryptography specialist on the team?
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:35 PM**
points at everyone else aimlessly
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:35 PM**
All that being said... we do need to port the crypto libraries no matter what — to support old blocks like someone else said.(edited)
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:35 PM**
Yep
port old code, then we can forget about it - use new code which is done by crypto experts?
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:38 PM**
I don’t think we need crypto experts if we move to standard implementations down the road.(edited)
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 11:38 PM**
right as long as we use the right and updated libraries lol
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:38 PM**
Yeah, if it's just standard functions available in most languages we can just assume they are implemented well and leave it at that
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:39 PM**
Even with the current implementations... it’s easy enough to generate test cases to validate a port of them.
***
**Jon - Nest - Last Monday at 11:40 PM**
standard implementation of course, but deciding to change the algo and estimating which one will be solved by quantum and to what extend and by when is a crypto expert question
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:40 PM**
Does it ?
NIST does a pretty decent job evaluating such.
***
**Jon - Nest - Last Monday at 11:41 PM**
this is a great article about that, btw https://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.10377.pdf
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:42 PM**
https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Hash-Functions
***
**Jon - Nest - Last Monday at 11:42 PM**
to get a feel of what is quantum resistant and what is not, even though the algos are different(edited)
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:43 PM**
Ok so we decided on porting the old libs and then considering new ones after
Sounds good

What’s next on the agenda
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 11:44 PM**
How to approach the porting? tasks/roles/focus or do we want sometime to think about it?
idk if everyone has had time to process this eg soregums
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:45 PM**
I agree, if we can split this down into well defined modules then people can start attempting to write code
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:48 PM**
How many people do we actually have qualified to do that
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:49 PM**
qualified to port the crypto libs ?
*brushes the dust off some books*
***
**fexra - Last Monday at 11:49 PM**
*looks away*
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:50 PM**
I can confidently say I’m not the guy you want doing that
I can learn it but I can’t guarantee it’s quick
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:50 PM**
ditto
***

***[Bullshit]***

***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:51 PM**
So I’m hearing that we need to get outside help
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:51 PM**
lol
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:51 PM**
Am I hearing it right
***
***[Bullshit]***
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:52 PM**
i'm not above asking for help.
***
**crappyrules - Last Monday at 11:52 PM**
We have a few C# guys around here.  How did Robocoder pan out?  I see him active in help and wallets
***
**ar-x - Last Monday at 11:52 PM**
i suppose there is no point FFI'ing the C++ libs?
***
**z - Last Monday at 11:52 PM**
well firstly we want a list of what we need and where the files are. Then are we just copying and pasting the code from C++/C to C#? Because if it's just bitwise ops then it's basically C# already(edited)
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:52 PM**
Robocoder has only talked so far and I haven’t seen any code from him
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:53 PM**
I can code in many languages -- c# is one of them -- it's the C that's rusty as hell... and i'm so far down the rabbit hole in digging at this stuff that i get wrapped in despair

***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:56 PM**
So again, am I hearing that we need outside help?\
***
**iburnmycd™ - Last Monday at 11:58 PM**
sure
yes
pls
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Last Monday at 11:58 PM**
ok let's make a list of avenues for help that already exist, and ill start contacting some of them to see who can help and what it will cost me(edited)
that sentence was a lot more coherent before i typed it
***

***[Bullshit]***

***
**z - Yesterday at 12:02 AM**
I'll for sure have a look at porting the crypto libs, but i'll probably fail. I tried to write cn in C# and gave up pretty fast
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 12:03 AM**
what you mean you tried to write CN in C#
***
**z - Yesterday at 12:03 AM**
I was like hey it would be fun to implement the cryptonight algorithm in C# and I got as far as reading the keccak spec and decided this was above my level
***
***[Bullshit]***
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 12:10 AM**
let's keep it all on track folks
***
**fexra - Yesterday at 12:12 AM**
Okay so we have agreed on making a list of potential outside help for porting to C#
than next I guess we are back to the diagram bit? or have we decided that its not neccesary to create a list of methods/functions and diagram them?
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 12:13 AM**
yes
doesnt have to be C#, but it'd be nice
the first one would be hardest
the next should be easier, like with pools, guis, web wallets,  etc(edited)
***
**ar-x - Yesterday at 12:15 AM**
(FWIW - the kickstarter project could help source funds for important projects)(edited)
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 12:17 AM**
Stack Overflow, /r/programming, hackernews, places outside of the crypto community but still in the general programming community
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 12:21 AM**
sorry, i've gotta run for now guys. i'll catch back up later
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 12:23 AM**
I think we've wrapped it up tbh. Next step is crypto libs
might as well shut this one down.
***
**z - Yesterday at 12:31 AM**
Ok. I think it would be a good idea to have a map of the modules we need to build, i.e. P2P, RPC, that sort of thing, and a bit of detail on what those would look like
***
**fexra - Yesterday at 12:33 AM**
I feel like I could be to some help with mapping these out. I may not have no experience in C# but I can read lines and get the overview of files
***
**CodIsAFish - turtlepool.space - Yesterday at 12:33 AM**
I'm working on visualising the existing codebase with tools from here: https://scitools.com/
***
**fexra - Yesterday at 12:33 AM**
:t_ooh:
***
**CodIsAFish - turtlepool.space - Yesterday at 12:33 AM**
Not sure what will come of it, but will test it against the current VS implementation of visualising things
***
**fexra - Yesterday at 12:40 AM**
Nice keep us updated :smile:
Would just like to add that if any of you got some beginner tasks/work for this or need a help, ping me, ill be having lots of free time soon.
***
**CodIsAFish - turtlepool.space - Yesterday at 1:28 AM**
So trying to visualise everything in VS just OOMs it so I'll work on something else for it tomorrow - will get a visualisation done though!
***
**SoreGums | WEN KRANG - Yesterday at 1:34 AM**
sounds  good, I'd add that as well as a spec, some kind of test suite, so others building can verify quickly they did things correctly.
the spec needs to be focused on what the network supports, rather than how data is stored.

so a test suite could be fairly compact, would also help with verifying the crypto parts, especially when comes to hard forking to a new crypto base. the current spec is skewed toward a spec for a binary - with some parts covering the network.

the network part is the one that needs to be buttoned up to enable others the ability to do whatever and connect to TRTL Network.
while libs will be helpful, those libs should be implementing the network spec and providing convience and the libs are entriely optional.(edited)
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 2:12 AM**
So... solidify the network spec. Got it.
Gimmie 48 hours and then y’all can tell me I’m nuts. Lol.

***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 5:33 AM**
Here's what I have so far -> https://hackmd.io/s/rJGItRH-m
***
***[Bullshit]***
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 5:37 AM**
looks good so far!
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 5:38 AM**
i can give the appearance of a systems architect
so... i'm thinking of using a normal distribution model such as the commonly known bell curve for the selection of peers to announce to others... thoughts ?
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 5:42 AM**
can you ellaborate
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 5:43 AM**
As you can see, i've included a ttl field in the proposal that in essence contains how many "peers" away a given peerId is in the swarm

such that if I learn about Z from you, Z would present to me with a ttl of 2
you'd be a ttl of 1
and anyone that Z told you that you told me would be a 3
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 5:44 AM**
ohhhhh ok I get it
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 5:44 AM**
now obviously -- we don't want to just tell everyone our first level connections and that's it... no we want a variety to achieve the maximum 

amount of 6-degrees of kevin bacon(edited)

***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 5:44 AM**
hahahah
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 5:45 AM**
so... if the random select selects... say 10% from the bottom 25% of TTLs (bottom being closer to 255), 10% from the top 25% (closer to 1) and say 80% stepped through the middle 50%

i think we'd get a nice mix so to speak
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 5:45 AM**
yeah that sounds about right

I’m not surprised, per se, but I’m impressed by your attention to detail

Good job
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 5:50 AM**
thanks.
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 6:53 AM**
I see you typing.
Lol
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 6:54 AM**
I also see
***
**SoreGums | WEN KRANG - Yesterday at 6:54 AM**
> Note: Seed nodes will not accept nor submit new blocks.

not sure it's possible for a node to differentiate between a new block and another block. so maybe seed nodes won't produce new blocks is the correct terminology
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 6:54 AM**
Fair enough
***
**SoreGums | WEN KRANG - Yesterday at 7:03 AM**
not sure that detail is required regarding how to select peers, wrt ``backoff`` timing etc

I'm saying the spec wants to lay out the terms, how a party then implements them is their choice. if another party gets annoyed and ignores them, that's not covered by the spec and individual parties can moderate their behavior etc
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 7:05 AM**
i get that --- i'd like to try to combine high level logic for *best practices* for a little bit of guidance at the same time
***
**SoreGums | WEN KRANG - Yesterday at 7:05 AM**
there is a line for things we need to nail and things we can recommend, however it needs to be clear which parts on which side of the line
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 7:06 AM**
also -- if we aim to swing towards libraries that we put together we all need the libraries to work well together and they should all follow the same logic ideas
***
**SoreGums | WEN KRANG - Yesterday at 7:08 AM**
I agree with that, however at the same time as a player in the TRTL Network if I'm doing everything from scratch, I don't want to be dictated to "how" I should do a thing, as long as I did the thing, that should be enough.(edited)
***
**RockSteady | ARI GOLD - Yesterday at 7:13 AM**
@Bebbop von Saberhagen might want to read this
***
**Bebbop von Saberhagen - Yesterday at 7:16 AM**
how far back?
***
**SoreGums | WEN KRANG - Yesterday at 7:17 AM**
then at the same time I want to read about why and how the thing is done, just not be told it is done this exact way.

so the libraries would give access to standard lang implementations of the network spec. however that where they stop, leave all the how to the core codebase being developed.
then we also have a reference implantation of the libraries that follow the best practices.

hope what I'm saying is clear, cause it's all about nuance...
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 7:18 AM**
i'm picking up what you're putting down :smiley:
that being said -- there are backoff/retry times written in numerous RFCs -- so either case can be made
***
**SoreGums | WEN KRANG - Yesterday at 7:20 AM**
yes. at the sametime the library thing is not "connect to the network and do everything so I can send a block and maintain all the connections"

that's doing way too much

cause if I come along and want to do something else, I can't use the library cause the path the library is taking is not what I want to do.

example, query nodes about things. sure I might be a noisy actor in the network and not contributing, however I'm following the spec so there is nothing stopping me connecting and getting the info I want. maybe others then track peer behavior and have an internal implementation of how they decide which peers they like etc
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 7:24 AM**
true

then again -- i did only specify the backoff towards the seeds :package: 
I edited it and struck through the backoff timer for now

saved the copy that's there now -- i'm whooped and my pilot site installation team just wrapped up

so it's time for bed
***
**z - Yesterday at 7:28 AM**
Maybe just add "Suggested implementation:" - I think putting down thoughts on how to do it helps others understand it and flesh out yours and our thoughts on how to implement this

***
**SoreGums | WEN KRANG - Yesterday at 7:29 AM**
I'm picking to make a point in general for how I see a spec vs implementation

***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 7:29 AM**
that's why i struck it out for now -- still there just ... crossed out kind of
***
**SoreGums | WEN KRANG - Yesterday at 8:19 AM**
like this one as well, ``Once the node has connected to the target number of peers, standard operation then begins.``

the spec doesn't care how many peers are connected. technically a node can have one connection and ask that single peer for blocks or send blocks to the peer if the peer asks for them.
.(edited)

this new ``ttl`` field on a peer is important, need to explain what it means and thus expect the values in this field to follow the spec when exchanged amongst the nodes.

i think a string representing an agent_id is useful too. allows for peer identification. then also some kind of services bit field as well.

like Kari nodes are different to TurtleCoin nodes. however a node could be both if that is what that person running that node wanted to do

unless TRTL Network it's made up of separate networks with separate seeds etc
like a node could communicate multiple networkid's during the handshake.

I don't know.if there is merit to that though, something to at least acknowledge now though

***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 3:17 PM**
You’re right, what I have there doesn’t say how many peers need to be connected — it says the target number — which is not given. I agree that some implementors might want 1, some might want 1000 connections.
So far, I’ve only written up ideas for peer discovery and exchange. Nothing about blockchain exchange. I believe the Kari and TRTL services flag and/or agent would come at the next level for data exchange.
***
**iburnmycd™ - Yesterday at 11:57 PM**
https://github.com/BlueDragon747/BlakeSharp8/blob/master/BlakeSharp8/Blake256.cs looks like a pretty decent start (not directly importable) to 
***
June 20, 2018
***
**iburnmycd™ - Today at 4:34 AM**
It's been 23 hours, I have 25 more hours to put together the rest of the network spec :smiley:

***
**fexra - Today at 11:31 AM**
Alright. I think I will give it another 24 hours or so and will turn this discussion into minutes and upload them on meta in a folder called meetings? Does that sound like a good plan?

***

***[Meeting Over]***
